[coercions] Remove uniform inheritance condition? (#15789)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/addendum/implicit-coercions.rst

conditions holds:

 * ``D`` is a user-defined class, then the type of ``f`` must have the form
   :g:`forall (x₁:A₁)..(xₖ:Aₖ)(y:C v₁..vₙ), D u₁..uₘ` where :math:`m`
   is the number of parameters of ``D``.
 * ``D`` is ``Funclass``, then the type of ``f`` must have the form
   :g:`forall (x₁:A₁)..(xₖ:Aₖ)(y:C v₁..vₙ)(x:A), B`.
 * ``D`` is ``Sortclass``, then the type of ``f`` must have the form
   :g:`forall (x₁:A₁)..(xₖ:Aₖ)(y:C v₁..vₙ), s` with ``s`` a sort.

> We then write :g:`f : C >-> D`. When the :g:`x₁..xₖ` are exactly the
> :g:`v₁..vₙ` (in the same order), the coercion is said to satisfy the
> *uniform inheritance condition*. It is advisable to satisfy it, so
> that the :ref:`test for ambiguous coercion paths <ambiguous-paths>`
> is complete.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then write :g:`f : C >-> D`. When the :g:`x₁..xₖ` are exactly the
:g:`v₁..vₙ` (in the same order), the coercion is said to satisfy the
*uniform inheritance condition*. When possible, we recommend using coercions
that satisfy this condition in order to NEW WORDING.

```

Could you state the consequences of an ambiguous coercion path here?  My guess is that it means there are multiple possible coercions, in which case Coq may not pick the appropriate one.  The description for "test for ambiguous coercion paths" should be here (main descriptive text) rather than somewhat buried in the warnings you've added.  The warnings can hyperlink to here.

If you think the term is important, maybe change `*uniform inheritance condition*` to ```:gdef:`uniform inheritance condition` ```so it appears in the glossary.  Then you can hyperlink to the term with ```:term:`uniform inheritance condition` ```.

Author: Thanks, updated (but feel free to criticize if it's not clear enough).

.. note:: The built-in class ``Sortclass`` can be used as a source class, but
          the built-in class ``Funclass`` cannot.

To coerce an object :g:`t:C t₁..tₙ` of ``C`` towards ``D``, we have to
apply the coercion ``f`` to it; the obtained term :g:`f _.._ t` is
then an object of ``D``.

Identity Coercions
-------------------

> Sometimes, one need a coercion to act both for a named class and for
> ``Sortclass`` or ``Funclass``. :cmd:`Identity Coercion` can be used
> for that purpose, see below for an
> :ref:`example <example-identity-coercion>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a coercion that works for both for a named class and for
``Sortclass`` or ``Funclass``, use the :cmd:`Identity Coercion` command.
There is an example :ref:`here <example-identity-coercion>`.
```

conditions holds:

 * ``D`` is a user-defined class, then the type of ``f`` must have the form
   :g:`forall (x₁:A₁)..(xₖ:Aₖ)(y:C v₁..vₙ), D u₁..uₘ` where :math:`m`
   is the number of parameters of ``D``.
 * ``D`` is ``Funclass``, then the type of ``f`` must have the form
   :g:`forall (x₁:A₁)..(xₖ:Aₖ)(y:C v₁..vₙ)(x:A), B`.
 * ``D`` is ``Sortclass``, then the type of ``f`` must have the form
   :g:`forall (x₁:A₁)..(xₖ:Aₖ)(y:C v₁..vₙ), s` with ``s`` a sort.

We then write :g:`f : C >-> D`.

.. _ambiguous-paths:

> When a coercion is added to the inheritance graph, new coercion paths
> which have the same classes as existing ones are ignored. The
> convertibility of the new and existing paths is checked and a warning
> is displayed when the check fails. When the :g:`x₁..xₖ` are exactly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you declare a new coercion (e.g. with :cmd:`Coercion`), new coercion
paths with the same classes as existing ones are ignored.  Coq will generate
a warning.  When the :g:`x₁..xₖ` are exactly
```

I've assumed that "The convertibility of the new and existing paths is checked and a warning is displayed when the check fails." merely restates the first sentence.  Is that correct?  If not, can you be specific about "is checked ... check fails"--what is the check?

Author: Not exactly, the check is a convertibility check (paths that are convertible (i.e., the same modulo Coq calculus) are acceptable, others will very likely cause troubles). Is it clearer with the new wording?

Reviewer: That's better, let's go with this for now.  We can do better when we more thoroughly revise the chapter more thoroughly.

the :g:`v₁..vₙ` (in the same order), the coercion is said to satisfy
the :gdef:`uniform inheritance condition`. When possible, we recommend
using coercions that satisfy this condition in order to make the test

> for ambiguous coercion paths complete.

Reviewer: I don't know what "complete" means here, OTOH I've never used this feature.

Reviewer 2: Here it means: no false positive.

Author: Like in sound and complete, I eventually chose a wording "guarantees that no spurious warning will be generated", is that clearer?

Reviewer: An improvement for sure.

  .. exn:: Cannot recognize @class as a source class of @qualid.
     :undocumented:

  .. exn:: Found target class ... instead of ...
     :undocumented:

  .. warn:: @qualid does not respect the uniform inheritance condition.

>      The :ref:`test for ambiguous coercion paths <ambiguous-paths>`

Reviewer: Not necessary to hyperlink to a point so close the hyperlink (only 3 lines in the rst file).

But as I suggested, ambiguous coercion paths should be described in the main text and this hyperlink should point to there.

  ``Sortclass`` if it exists.  This case occurs in the abstraction
  :g:`fun x:A => t`, universal quantification :g:`forall x:A,B`, global
  variables and parameters of (co)inductive definitions and
  functions. In :g:`forall x:A,B`, such a coercion path may also be applied
  to ``B`` if necessary.

  .. coqtop:: all

    Parameter Graph : Type.
    Parameter Node : Graph -> Type.
    Coercion Node : Graph >-> Sortclass.
    Parameter G : Graph.
    Parameter Arrows : G -> G -> Type.
    Check Arrows.
    Parameter fg : G -> G.
    Check fg.
    Set Printing Coercions.
    Check fg.
    Unset Printing Coercions.

.. example:: Coercion to a function

  ``f a`` is ill-typed because ``f:A`` is not a function. The term
  ``f`` is replaced by the term obtained by applying to ``f`` the
  coercion path between ``A`` and ``Funclass`` if it exists.

  .. coqtop:: all

    Parameter bij : Set -> Set -> Set.
    Parameter ap : forall A B:Set, bij A B -> A -> B.
    Coercion ap : bij >-> Funclass.
    Parameter b : bij nat nat.
    Check (b 0).
    Set Printing Coercions.
    Check (b 0).
    Unset Printing Coercions.

.. _example-identity-coercion:

.. example:: Identity coercions.

>   .. coqtop:: all
> 
>     Definition fct := nat -> nat.
>     Parameter incr_fct : Set.
>     Parameter fct_of_incr_fct : incr_fct -> fct.
>     Fail Coercion fct_of_incr_fct : incr_fct >-> Funclass.
>     Coercion fct_of_incr_fct : incr_fct >-> fct.
>     Parameter f' : incr_fct.
>     Check f' : fct.
>     Fail Check f' 0.
>     Identity Coercion Id_fct_Funclass : fct >-> Funclass.
>     Check f' 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. coqtop:: in

    Definition fct := nat -> nat.
    Parameter incr_fct : Set.
    Parameter fct_of_incr_fct : incr_fct -> fct.
    
 .. coqtop:: all   
 
    Fail Coercion fct_of_incr_fct : incr_fct >-> Funclass.
    
 .. coqtop:: in
 
    Coercion fct_of_incr_fct : incr_fct >-> fct.
    Parameter f' : incr_fct.
    
 .. coqtop:: all
 
    Check f' : fct.
    Fail Check f' 0.
    Identity Coercion Id_fct_Funclass : fct >-> Funclass.
    Check f' 0.
```

While a bit tedious, I try to remove the boring parts of examples to make them more readable, e.g.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/158275627-70262c6f-9ff5-47da-8c13-fc0442e84f2d.png)

  Check (b 0).
  Unset Printing Coercions.

.. _example-identity-coercion:

> We give now an example using identity coercions.

Reviewer: Perhaps:

```suggestion
.. example:: Identity coercions
```
and indent the entire example, the preferred styling for examples.  This will make it look like this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/158255468-4b42a84b-d074-4347-8b25-540bd485a4e8.png)

OTOH None of the examples in the chapter use `.. example::`, so up to you.  If you're willing to adjust all the examples in the chapter, that would be great.
